today i'm going to explain a drama
horror sci-fi film called
sputnik spoilers ahead watch out and
take care
during the cold war in 1983 two russian
cosmonauts commander constantine
vesnikov
and lieutenant kirilla verchenko
complete the final leg of the orbit four
space mission
avachenko talks about his excitement to
see his family as they prepare for an
atmospheric reentry towards the earth
after executing all the system
procedures the two men are finally ready
to descend
as they begin to enter the earth's
atmosphere powerful turbulence suddenly
causes their spacecraft to shake
vigorously
forcing the system to fluctuate as both
men try to regain their composure they
notice a silhouette of a non-terrestrial
creature
lumbering across the window toward them
the orbit 4 spacecraft enters the
earth's atmosphere as a crash landed in
the fields of kazakhstan
with only constantine surviving inside
the research institute of brain in
moscow dr tatiana yuryevna
a psychiatrist and a renowned
neurophysiologist stands on trial for
alleged malpractice
she explains that her patient was
improperly diagnosed by the previous
doctor and insists that the method of
submerging the patient into the water is
necessary to temporarily cut the oxygen
supply inside the lungs
in the end tatyana is sanctioned for
dismissal meanwhile
colonel semirath head secretary of the
soviet union scientific research
spectates her proceedings from afar
impressed by her forthright attitude
he approaches tatyana and presents a
proposition semirath tells tatiana that
he runs a research institute for
neuropsychiatry
he persuades her that he will take care
of the review board if she goes with him
to kazakhstan
to work on a case showing no reluctance
tatyana takes the helicopter with
semirath
heading their way to kazakhstan in
flight semirath discloses how they had
to falsify the media reports about the
recent orbit 4 landing
he then tells tatyana how they lost
radio contact with them on the day
before they landed
and the patient sole survivor commander
constantine who was then retrieved near
the spacecraft's remains
suddenly suffers from episodic memory
loss they soon arrive at the all union
scientific research institute
as they head to one of the underground
labs semi-rudolf tells tatyana that she
has access to 90 of the facility
they find dr yen rigel the research
director of the institute
attempting to hypnotize constantine
after a few minutes of bad luck
rigel ends the session in disappointment
as rigel vents his frustration out
tatyana enters the glass confinement to
meet constantine
she introduces herself and offers him a
cup of tea just as he grabs the cup
tatyana observes his every movement
keenly she explains that she was
requested to assess his condition
then she shows an indifferent expression
towards him and suddenly asks about his
toy
despite tatiana's impoliteness
constantine graciously answers that it's
a cosmonauts tradition to bring one
personal possession with them in space
after a few minutes of running through
the initial stage of the interview
constantine asked tatyana's help to
contact his mother to tell her that he's
doing well
neither confirming to agree nor disagree
she then takes her leave
on the other side of the glass
confinement she tells her colleagues
that the patient is suffering from ptsd
or post-traumatic stress disorder and
explains that his sensory receptors may
be damaged as she expresses her
disapproval of confining constantine
more of a prisoner than a patient
after stating her case tatyana tells
semirot off that she's already done and
now intends to leave
tatiana is scheduled for the next day's
flight to moscow without a choice she is
compelled to stay for the night
after making up her room she then goes
to the telephone to grant constantine's
request to call his mother
but the operator denies her attempt
later that night semirath knocks on her
door
bringing her back to the lab a group of
soldiers suddenly arrives
moving quickly to secure an additional
set of latches around constantine's
confines
then on a monitor screen taichunga
watches constantine struggle as he spews
blood on the floor
after which an embryo of a
non-terrestrial creature comes out from
his mouth
seeing the creature come to life she
spaces out in extreme terror
tatyana then clings around herself
trying to keep herself together
semi-radov explains that the creature
resides inside constantine
the creature comes out from its host
during the night although it may look
like constantine suffers in pain it
exits and enters his body without really
harming him
tatyana is suspicious and demands the
reason why they want her to work on this
classified case
semirath admits that he chose her
because of her radical approach in the
medical field regardless of the process
in order to get certain results
instead of being flattered tatyana feels
that her abilities are being challenged
she then pensively demands all the
classified materials to properly
officiate the case
tatyana finds out about the nature of
the creature as she examines the results
of the previous experiments when they
tried to separate the creature from its
host
without the creature constantine's vital
signs progressively deteriorate
while at the same time he acquires
phenomenal vitality and exceptional
healing capabilities when the creature
is inside his body
the creature incubates itself between
constantine's esophagus and stomach and
every time it urges to exit its host it
induces a toxin that relaxes the muscles
knocking its host unconscious as it
ventures outside its ability to
withstand outside its host body
increases by a fraction of 10 minutes on
every occasion
and currently the creature can stay
outside for over an hour tatiana is
determined to find out whether the
creature is a parasite or a symbiote
that bonds with its host
creating a single entity meanwhile as
tatyana
reviews the footage of the creature dr
rigel enters the room
she then asks rigel how the creature
feeds rigel explains that it gets its
nutrients from the food that constantine
eats
as tatyana notices rigel's enmity
towards her she sarcastically clarifies
that she is not after his position
or his aim for the nobel prize later on
she makes an appointment with
constantine and catches him inside his
cell exercising
constantine confronts tatyana that she
might presumably be drawn to him and
accuses her that she willingly presented
herself to officiate this case
tatiana sarcastically informs him that
she is more likely to think that he is
deranged
catching his attention constantine asks
her to elaborate
she discloses that the whole institution
thinks that he killed his co-pilot
averchenko
after finding overchenko dead as soon as
they have landed there is no other
person that is likely to be suspected
except him
showing signs of aggravation constantine
realizes that it could be the whole
reason why they held him in detention
as he conveys how he prepares for this
moment of truth he insists that he
didn't know how it happened if it did
really happen
ignoring his claim tatyana adds that she
read on his profile that he abandoned
his son
she accuses him of being self-centered
to have chosen his career as a space
crew rather than to be a father to his
child
constantine is offended and asks her to
leave she then quickly returns to her
infuriated colleagues and apologizes for
her menial manner towards constantine
she orders them to test his endocrine
levels as she explains that she intended
to aggravate him on purpose to increase
his psychological stress in order to
accurately determine how the creature
reacts to hormonal change
afterward she asks semirath to transfer
constantine into a medical unit during
daylight hours and to allow him to
interact with other people in an attempt
to recreate a normal life circumstance
for him to obtain a realistic clinical
approach
the next day tatyana pays konstantin a
visit to his assigned medical unit
she apologizes for provoking him
intentionally just to measure his
hormone levels under severe distress
constantine sits down silently turning
his back on her as typhyana is about to
leave
he suddenly tells her that he didn't
know about the child a week before his
flight he was informed about his
fiancee's death
his fiancee didn't have any relatives so
his son was brought into an orphanage
without his knowledge
the government concealed that
information from him in order to prevent
him from making any sudden decisions
prior to their mission
then constantine approaches her and
tells her about his suspicion that she
stayed not to cure him of amnesia but
for a far greater reason
tatyana falls silent for a while and as
she stares at him she tells him that she
is not allowed to disclose anything
on that night tatyana stands behind the
glass confinement as constantine lies
unconsciously on the floor
the creature walks towards her scanning
her on the other side of the glass
tatiana demonstrates to show how she
lies on the floor observing her
movements the creature imitates her
position
she then accidentally knocks
constantine's toy as she stands up
as the toy staggers the creature looks
at it in fascination
tatyana then puts on a protective suit
and demands to raise the glass
without anything in between them she
places the toy in front of the creature
all of a sudden the creature twines
around the toy unexpectedly as if her
predator protecting its offspring
looking in astonishment tatyana tries to
lay a hand on the creature but suddenly
slips on the slime in the attempt
causing the creature to react violently
semiratha mobilizes the creature by
switching the bright lights on
then he immediately lowers the glass
down as the soldiers pull tatyana to
safety
right after the incident semirath checks
on tatyana
excited about her new discovery she
tells him how constantine's subconscious
self-embodies the creature's mind after
noticing how the creature reacted
towards the toy
she hypothesizes that it reacted in such
a way because the toy reminds him about
the guilt he feels towards his son
she is convinced that constantine and
creature are a single entity and share
the same conscious mind
she assesses that the creature partially
alleviates constantine's memory and
social skills
causing amnesia she then concludes that
at some point the creature will no
longer need its host
she suggests bringing constantine to
moscow for proper treatment but is
instantly rejected by the colonel
semirodov justifies that he makes fake
reports every day to protect his comrade
and to substantially avoid getting an
order from the higher ops to destroy the
creature and most likely eliminate
constantine as well
tatyana once again reviews the videos
and happens to notice some parts of the
footage were edited
she then confronts rigel about her
suspicion that the creature might not be
feeding on what constantine takes in for
himself but entirely feeds itself
separately
she asserts that in order for her to
lead a sound investigation she demands
the right to know about everything
rigel reacts distressfully as he
threatens her telling her to go back to
moscow
tatyana then reminds rigel about the
nobel prize after which she insists that
he won't make any progress without her
expertise as she convinces rigel to
provide her all the information without
letting semirath know
later that night rigel takes tatyana
during the creatures feeding sessions
concealing herself at the back of
ridgel's truck she's able to sneak
inside the feeding chamber ridgel hands
her a night vision telescope in order
for her to completely observe the whole
procedure
in a large cage the soldiers locked in
one of the prisoners inside
due to its sensitivity towards bright
lights the feeding must be done in a low
light condition as they bring forth a
creature to its human prey
the creature shows itself to its victims
first in order to expand their fear
letting the brain increase its cortisol
production from which the creature feeds
and obtains its nutrition
the next morning tatyana invites
constantine for a run around the
facilities compound
as they do their rounds tatyana secretly
tells him about the alien creature from
outer space that's inside him
then she continues about her recent
discovery that the creature feeds on
people
she then explains that she can help him
separate the creature from himself but
in order to do that they need someone
that can inform the government regarding
his condition
he acts as if he heard nothing from
tatiana and quickly turns around
just as before constantine finishes his
run he instructs her to meet him at
midnight on the hallway that is located
close to the lab
at exactly midnight both constantine and
tatyana are able to meet at the
rendezvous
they remain covert slipping in the
hallway heading towards the facilities
morgue
constantine confesses that he is the
creature himself a version of himself
without morals nor obligations
he admits that he feels everything it
feels and clearly remembers every detail
of what it sees then she asks for the
reason why he keeps it for himself if he
already knew what was happening from the
beginning
he justifies that if ever semirath knows
that he can control the creature the
more that he will be kept in custody
he plans to endure everything for two
weeks before getting a discharge order
from the review board
however tatyana disapproves of the
thought that he needs to feed on people
for another two weeks
this creates a great deal of
disagreement between them upon returning
to her room
one of the soldiers intercepts her and
takes her to semirath's office
she then confronts semi-radoff about
feeding people to the creature he admits
that the real reason they are here is to
find a way to control the creature
turning it into an effective weapon he
then takes her to the feeding chamber
and locks her inside the cage together
with two other prisoners
from a distance the creature quickly
moves in to attack one of the frightened
inmates when tatyana suddenly
stands in front of it protecting the man
behind her the creature shows hostility
but was seized by tatyana's
determination to defend the man
witnessing its marvel semirath
subjugates tatyana to cooperate with him
to investigate how to fully control the
creature as he threatens her life
tatiana forces herself to work the next
day she decides to study the catatonic
body of aberchenko with rigel to unravel
the truth behind the creature's decision
for choosing constantine over him
she finds out that averchenko has an
early stage of cancer that they couldn't
detect prior to liftoff
it started with a kidney tumor that
eventually causes addison's disease
a rare disorder of adrenal insufficiency
preventing the body to produce high
concentrations of metabolic hormones
that include cortisol
the creature was able to detect
averchenko's condition causing it to
choose constantine as its host
as she calls rigel to examine
averchenko's body she hides her message
using medical jargon
stating at 2 pm by the medical unit they
will attempt and escape together with
him
using the same cryptic language rigel
refuses to connive with them
continuing their conversation with the
same language tatyana manages to
convince him
he then provides tatyana with a bag that
contains a sedative without a moment to
waste
tatyana approaches the guard and quickly
injects the sedative in his neck
knocking him down she then takes his gun
gives it to rigel
and asks him to be on the lookout as she
steps inside constantine's room
tatyana finds constantine weeping on the
floor feeling sorry for himself
regardless she tells him her plan to
escape and convinces him to do so
as they leave the room rigel hands
tatyana the keys to his vehicle and
tells them where to find it
rigel chooses to stay telling him that
there is something that he needs to do
in order to make everything right they
then exchange sincere farewells
looking at tatyana and constantine
heading for the exits rigel rushes
towards his office as he securely locks
the doors with a table
then he calls the authorities reporting
the incident meanwhile in the
surveillance room
semirath looks at tatyana and
constantine running off
he then executes a directive to retrieve
constantine alive and all at once
a shoot to kill order for tatyana at the
enclosure the response team is already
holding their position
waiting for them to surrender as tatiana
tries to move away from constantine
while she raises her hand the response
team suddenly shoots her
taking a bullet to the gut she is lucky
enough that they miss killing her
on the other hand semirath manages to
get inside his office after rigel
discloses all the information to the
authorities regarding their operations
rigel tells semirath that he has already
informed them about their illegal
activities
expressing his great disappointment
towards rigel's disloyalty semi-rudolf
shoots him dead on his seat
back at the enclosure hiding behind the
crates the response team slowly closes
in
tatyana then throws the syringe that
contains a cocktail of hormones that can
imitate the effects of addison's disease
forcing the creature to leave his body
immediately the creature suddenly
appears in front of the soldiers
attacking them one by one then tatyana
quickly drags constantine inside rigel's
jeep and rapidly drives it crashing
through the gates
semirath arrives a little too late at
the enclosure discovering that tatyana
and constantine had already fled
he decides to take the creature out all
by himself driving at daybreak tatyana
suddenly stops to check on constantine's
severe condition
just behind them semirath and his team
are closing in
feeling helpless tatiana approaches them
and admits she was wrong to think that
constantine can survive without the
creature
semirath takes out the heavily injured
creature with the intention to force it
back inside constantine
as constantine becomes completely
symbiotic with a creature he then
transfers his consciousness to the
symbiote killing semirath and his team
clear from all the danger the creature
re-enters constantine's body and in a
few seconds
constantine regains his vitality looking
from afar they see the authorities
coming in
now able to heave a sigh of relief
constantine tells tatyana that he has
finally made his decision just as he
subsequently pulls the trigger to kill
the creature
alongside himself tatyana survives and
now leads a free life
after quite some time after all that's
been done she is now ready to lead a new
life together with her adoptive son
the son of the late commander
constantine vashnikov
[Music]
you